---
title: "An interesting project"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
categories:
  - Virtual reality
tags:
  - 3D
  - Virtual Reality
  - Fish Tank Virtual Reality
image: 
  path: /assets/images/Stamps.png
---
I recently came across an interesting project in the field of virtual reality. The project describes the design and development of apparatus and software to create a 3D projection onto a specifically designed spherical screen. 

<!--more-->

The project, hosted at the University of British Columbia, is named Spherical Fish Tank VR. It consists in an interactive spherical 3D display. This technology uses a spherical display surface to create a contained virtual reality volume, allowing visualization and interaction with the seamlessly blended projected imagery, with 360 degrees of visibility from all angles.  
<br />
In the case of the application to humans, head-tracking of the viewer allows the subject to visualize 3D scenes from arbitrary viewpoints. Through the use of special shutter glasses, the approach can also allow multiple users to visualize and interact with the projected scene at the same time. For details see the project's web site at:
[Spherical Fish Tank VR](https://dfp.ubc.ca/project/spherical-fish-tank-vr).  
<br />
I was wondering whether this same technology could be used to project realistic 3D virtual reality to model-organisms in the laboratory (i.e. individual fruit flies). Whereas in the case of humans the subject's position is tracked by specific head trackers, in the case of flies the tracking could be performed in the same way that is described in the contents section of the present web site. For instance, the tracking and projection "systems" could be run on distinct synchronized computers, so as to allow maximum performance of the two tasks in parallel.
